So now let's see how we can document our book endpoint.
Basically we have two approaches we can follow.
The first is the top-down approach our design first.
This means we use Swagger to design our API before
we've written any actual code.
Imagine yourself in front of a JSON editor writing the contract in JSON
and then generate Java and TypeScript code out of it.
This can have some advantages as it can be written by nontechnical people,
but quite cumbersome.
The second approach is the bottom-up approach or code first.
This means we've already written the Java code of our API
and will use Swagger to document it.
That's the approach we will be using.
In fact, we will annotate our existing code to do that.
Here is our BookEndpoint with the getBook method.
If we want to generate a contract,
we first start with a SwaggerDefinition annotation,
then depending on the level of document we want,
we can add information about this API,
a description but also the name of the company who created it,
the host, we can find it, the basePath of the different protocols.
So here we are just informing the consumer that to access the
BookEndpoint API it needs to go to HTTP or HTTPS
/localhost:8080/bookstore-back/api/books.
That's the first step.
But we need now to document the getBook method.
Actually some information can already be extracted from the JAX-RS annotations,
for example, the get method and the id parameter.
The JAX-RS produces annotation specifies that the
response will be in JSON format.
Another easy to get information is the name of the method, here getBook.
And the PassParam indicates that the parameter to be passed is of type
integer and follows a certain regular expression.
But we might want to add extra information to our contract.
That's when we use extra Swagger annotations.
We can describe the API, here we just write a description for humans to read,
this method returns a book.
We can also specify the responses returned by this API.
For example,
a 404 will be returned if no book is found in the database or a 200 otherwise.
That could be enough, but we can go further.
What is the response of this method?
A book?
Well let's add these to the contract.
Here we are saying that the getBook method returns a book and we
can actually get the JSON definition of a book.
Swagger contracts have a definition section to describe all the data structures.
Here we annotate our book entity with a Swagger ApiModel annotation,
give it a description and that's enough to have a book structure of type object.
Then it's just a matter of listing all the properties of this structure,
such as id of type integer or title and description of
type string or unitCost of type float.
As you can see we annotate the properties we need to
describe with the annotation ApiModel property.
We finally get a JSON contract describing each API and data structure of our system.